# Branching Policy

This is a really important tutorial regarding how we manage each person's code, so as not to create code collisions.

## The branches in this repository must follow the pattern below:

### main

- The branch _main_ represents a stable version of our product. It contains a tested versioned, reviewed code, ready to be delivered to the final user.
This branch must come from the develop branch through pull requests approved at the end of each release.

Rules:

1. The is only ONE branch _main_.
2. Commits made directly to the _main_ branch are **not** permited.

### develop
- The branch _develop_ contains the updated version of the code being developedo. This branch is always syncronnized with the branch _main_ and is the basis for all _feature_ branches .

Rules:

1. The is only ONE branch _develop_.

### feature
- The branches _feature_ represent the functionalities of the system that must be developed. They must always have the branch _develop_ as their origin and end.

Naming Rules:

```
feature/(#issue-Id)-issue-title
```

### release
- The branch _release_ represents the collective functionalities of a specific point of the _develop_ branch. This branch contains concluded functionalities that will be present in the next stable version of the product.
- Only **bug fixes** are allowed in this branch.

Regras:

1. Created from _develop_.
2. Mix of _develop_ and _main_..

Naming Rules:

```
release/version-number
```

### bugfix
- The _bugfix_ branches are used to implement bug solutions found through release testing.
- The branch _bugfix_ must have the branch _release_ as it's origin and end.

Naming Rules:

```
bugfix/(#Issue-id)-issue-title
```

### hotfix
- A branch _hotfix_ is used to implement solutions for urgent problems found in the production environment.
- The branch _hotfix_ must have the branch _main_ as it's origin and end.

Naming Rules:

```
hotfix/(#Issue-Id)-issue-title
```

| Date       | Version | Description                      | Author             |
| :--------: | :----: | :----------:                   | :---------------: |
| 20/10/2023 |  0.1   | Branching Tutorial Creation| Letícia Aires|
