# How to Upload and Download your Code to/from Github
## Introduction
This is a quick step by step guide on how to upload and also download your code from your personal repository to Github so as to avoid code colisions and provide a smoother merging between everyone's code! 
## Requirements
You have correctly executed all steps in our first [tutorial](Tutorials/Cloning_Pygame_Repository.mkd) on Pygame and VScode.
## First things First
Before starting your code, you must **ALWAYS** try to do it with the updated github version, so as to avoid future code colisions between you and your colleagues.
### So How do I Manipulate the Updated Github Code?
You will have to open your VSCode Terminal and put the following code:
````
git checkout 'the branch you want to be updated with'
````
This way, the code in which you are working will coincide with the correct branch code of your issue.
This is further explained in our [Branch Guide tutorial]().
Next, you will have to pull the updated code from Github into your personal outdated code.
````
git pull
````
#### That's all!
## What about Git push?
Now that you are dealing with an updated code, you can make your adjustments developing new features regarding your assigned issue!


When you finish coding, you will have to upload your work back into github, so everyone has access to this new and better code.
In Software words, uploading your code means "pushing it" into Github.

To push a code back into Github you will have to execute the following steps:
#### 1- Check if you are in the right branch
````
git checkout 'the name of the branch you want to put your code in'
````
#### 2- Verify if everything is updated
````
git status
````
#### 3- Add your changes to the commit
````
Git add -A
````
#### 4- Commit you changes
Here it's advisable, but not essential, to follow our [commit guide]()
````
git commit -m "brief explanation of your code changes"
````
#### 5- Finally, push it
````
git push
````
